Added revert reason (#1700)
PegaSysEng/pantheon: docs/Using-Pantheon/Transactions/Revert-Reason.md

description: Including revert reason in transactions 
<!--- END of page meta data -->

# Revert Reason 

> In contracts, the [`revert`](https://solidity.readthedocs.io/en/v0.5.10/control-structures.html#revert) function 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In smart contracts, the [`revert`](https://solidity.readthedocs.io/en/v0.5.10/control-structures.html#revert) operation 
```

Author: Fixed

triggers an exception to flag an error and revert the current call. An optional string message containing 

> information about the error is passed back to the caller.

Reviewer: returned to the client from the EVM (not to the caller per se).

Author: Fixed

!!! example
    ```sol
    pragma solidity >=0.5.0 <0.7.0;
    
    contract VendingMachine {
        function buy(uint amount) public payable {
            if (amount > msg.value / 2 ether)
                revert("Not enough Ether provided");
            // Alternative way to do it:
            require(
                amount <= msg.value / 2 ether,
                "Not enough Ether provided."
            );
            // Perform the purchase.
        }
    }
    ```

## Enabling Revert Reason 

Use the [`--revert-reason-enabled`](../../Reference/Pantheon-CLI-Syntax.md#revert-reason-enabled) command line option
to include the revert reason in the transaction receipt in Pantheon. 

!!! caution 
    Enabling revert reason may use a significant amount of memory. We do not recommend enabling revert

>     reason when connected to the Ethereum mainnet. 

Reviewer: same text as elsewhere? (I put a comment against it)

Author: Fixed

## Where is the Revert Reason Included 

> When revert reason is enabled, the revert reason is included in the transaction receipt and returned by 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When revert reason is enabled, the revert reason is included in the transaction receipt returned by 
```

Author: Fixed

         "blockNumber": "0x50",
         "contractAddress": null,
         "cumulativeGasUsed": "0x5208",
         "from": "0x627306090abab3a6e1400e9345bc60c78a8bef57",
         "gasUsed": "0x5208",
         "logs": [],
         "logsBloom": "0x00000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
         "status": "0x1",
         "to": "0xf17f52151ebef6c7334fad080c5704d77216b732",
         "transactionHash": "0xc00e97af59c6f88de163306935f7682af1a34c67245e414537d02e422815efc3",
         "transactionIndex": "0x0",
         "revertReason":"Not enough Ether provided"
       }
    }
    ```
    
## Dapp support 

Client libraries (eg, web3j) do not support extracting the revert reason from the transaction receipt. 

> To extract the revert reason your Dapp must interact directly with Pantheon using a custom JSON -> Object 

Reviewer: do people like "dApp" or "Dapp"?

Author: It's dapp or Dapp per the Consensys editorial guidelines
